_drafts/sax-streaming-algorithm.md, before:

---
layout: post
title:  "No set"
tags:   tfm puma
---

What a long time without writing anything... It was a crazy time last months. I have been finishing my lectures at University and I've also switched to a new job, so... exciting times are coming! :)

Thanks god I had also time for working on my Master Thesis. The last month was specially productive and I have a nice system for analyzing big datasets of tweets and obtaining some interesting results.

As I explained in my previous post (yep... September 2013), I've been saving tweets by using XML because of the CSV complexity for representing tweets' content successfully. Once I had to start to analyze them, I had to implement some kind of XML parser for being able to extract the content of each tweet. By using Scala, working with XML is much more easier than with Java, so by using *pull parsing* and *pattern matching* I wrote code like this:

````scala
val reader = new XMLEventReader(Source.fromFile(_path))
var isTweetTextNode = false
reader.foreach(event => {
  event match {
    case EvElemStart(_, "text", _, _) => isTweetTextNode = true
    case EvText(text) if isTweetTextNode => applyFilter(text)
    case EvElemEnd(_, "text") => isTweetTextNode = false
    case _ => ;
  }
})
````

Because this kind of parser works by using events, I just need to detect when the `EvElemStart` is fired in order to obtain the content for the `<text>` element. Said so, the line:

````scala
case EvElemStart(_, "text", _, _) => isTweetTextNode = true
````

has now more sense, right? I set the variable `isTweetTextNode` to `true` in order to ensure that I retrieve the content of text's nodes only when is inside of the `<text>` element:

````scala
case EvText(text) if isTweetTextNode => applyFilter(text)
````

That simple block of code give me the ability of analyze large XML dataset (~8GB) without memory leak.

### Adding filters for extracting terms

Commit message:

Added new posts. Updating styles

_drafts/sax-streaming-algorithm.md, after:

---
layout: post
title:  "No set"
tags:   tfm puma
---

Thanks God, I'm having some time for working on my Master Thesis. The last month was specially productive and I have a nice system for analyzing big datasets of tweets and start to obtain the first results.

As I explained in previous posts (yep... September 2013), I've been saving tweets by using XML because of the CSV complexity for representing tweets' content successfully. Once I had to start to analyze them, I had to implement some kind of XML parser for being able to extract the content of each tweet. By using Scala, working with XML is much more easier than with Java, so by using *pull parsing* and *pattern matching* I wrote code like this:

````scala
val reader = new XMLEventReader(Source.fromFile(_path))
var isTweetTextNode = false
reader.foreach(event => {
  event match {
    case EvElemStart(_, "text", _, _) => isTweetTextNode = true
    case EvText(text) if isTweetTextNode => applyFilter(text)
    case EvElemEnd(_, "text") => isTweetTextNode = false
    case _ => ;
  }
})
````

Because this kind of parser works by using events, I just need to detect when the `EvElemStart` is fired in order to obtain the content for the `<text>` element. Said so, the line:

````scala
case EvElemStart(_, "text", _, _) => isTweetTextNode = true
````

has now more sense, isn't it? I set the variable `isTweetTextNode` to `true` because I need to be sure that I'm retrieving the content of text's nodes only when the parser is inside of the `<text>` element:

````scala
case EvText(text) if isTweetTextNode => applyFilter(text)
````

That simple block of code give me the ability of analyze large XML dataset (~8GB) without memory leak.

### Adding filters for extracting terms
